PORT-5801 Add guide for Azure devops terraform pipeline (#816)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/create-self-service-experiences/setup-backend/azure-pipeline/examples/create-azure-resource.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import PortTooltip from "/src/components/tooltip/tooltip.jsx";

# Create Azure Resource with Terraform

> In the following guide, you are going to build a self-service action in Port that [executes](/create-self-service-experiences/setup-backend/azure-pipeline/azure-pipeline.md) an Azure pipeline to deploy a [storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-overview) in Azure using Terraform templates.

Reviewer: the link here should be "Azure pipeline" instead of "executes"

Author: alright then

## Example - creating a storage account

Follow these steps to get started:

1. Create the following as variables in your Azure Devops project:
    1. Create the Port credentials with the group id `port-credentials`.
        1. `PORT_CLIENT_ID` - Port Client ID [learn more](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).
        2. `PORT_CLIENT_SECRET` - Port Client Secret [learn more](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/api/#get-api-token).
    2. Create the Azure Cloud credentials with id `azure-service-principal`.
        :::tip
        Follow this [guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/terraform/get-started-cloud-shell-bash?tabs=bash#create-a-service-principal) to create a service principal in order to get the Azure credentials.
        :::
        1. `ARM_CLIENT_ID` - Azure Client ID (APP ID) of the application.
        2. `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET` - Azure Client Secret (Password) of the application.
        3. `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` - Azure Subscription ID.
        4. `ARM_TENANT_ID` - The Azure [Tenant ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-portal/get-subscription-tenant-id).

> 2. Create a Port <PortTooltip id="blueprint">blueprint</PortTooltip> with the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Port <PortTooltip id="blueprint">blueprint</PortTooltip> with the following JSON definition:
```

Author: done this. thank you.

<details>
   <summary>Port Azure Storage Account Blueprint</summary>
   :::note
   Keep in mind that this can be any blueprint you require; the provided example is just for reference.
   :::

```json showLineNumbers
{
    "identifier": "azureStorage",
    "title": "Azure Storage Account",
    "icon": "Azure",
    "schema": {
        "properties": {
            "storage_name": {
                "title": "Account Name",
                "type": "string",
                "minLength": 3,
                "maxLength": 63,
                "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            },
            "storage_location": {
                "icon": "DefaultProperty",
                "title": "Location",
                "type": "string"
            },
            "url": {
                "title": "URL",
                "format": "url",
                "type": "string",
                "icon": "DefaultProperty"
            }
        },
        "required": [
            "storage_name",
            "storage_location"
        ]
    },
    "mirrorProperties": {},
    "calculationProperties": {},
    "relations": {}
}
```

  </details>

> 3. Create a Port action in the [self-service hub](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) or with the following JSON definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a Port action in the [self-service page](https://app.getport.io/self-serve) with the following JSON definition:
```

Author: added this.
